README.md, before:

# Ansible Docker

## Description

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/abessifi/ansible-docker.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/abessifi/ansible-docker)
[![Ansible Galaxy](https://img.shields.io/badge/galaxy-abessifi.docker-blue.svg)](https://galaxy.ansible.com/abessifi/docker/)
[![Average time to resolve an issue](http://isitmaintained.com/badge/resolution/abessifi/ansible-docker.svg)](http://isitmaintained.com/project/abessifi/ansible-docker "Average time to resolve an issue")
[![Percentage of issues still open](http://isitmaintained.com/badge/open/abessifi/ansible-docker.svg)](http://isitmaintained.com/project/abessifi/ansible-docker "Percentage of issues still open")

This is an Ansible role to install Docker engine on several GNU/Linux distributions.

## Requirements

### Software Requirements

- **Ansible 2.0** or higher (can be easily installed via `pip`. E.g: `sudo pip install ansible==2.0.0.2`)
- **[Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com) 1.7** or higher (for testing purposes)
- **Virtualbox** (for testing purposes with Vagrant)
- **[Oh-my-box](https://github.com/abessifi/oh-my-box)** tool, optional, if you want to quickly provision and package a Vagrant base box with **Ansible** and **Ruby** pre-installed (recommanded to write and run acceptance tests with test-kitchen against the Ansible role).

## Supported Systems

- Debian
- Ubuntu

More infos in the role's metadata file.

## Dependencies

None.

## Role Variables

- **`docker_install_latest`** - Flag to perform the installation of the latest version of Docker engine (default: `true`)
- **`docker_pkg_version`** - If defined, this variable should specify the docker engine package version to be installed according to the Linux distribution system you want to provision (default: not defined). E.g: to install Docker engine `1.12.0` on Debian Jessie, set `docker_pkg_version` to `1.12.1-0~jessie`. In this use case, `docker_install_latest` should be set to `false`.
- **`docker_py_lib_version`** - The version of docker-py library to be installed (default: `1.10.5`)
- **`docker_compose_tool_version`** - The version of docker-compose tool to be installed (default: `1.6.2`)

## Available tags

- **`docker-setup`** - Specify this tag to perform the installation and configuration of Docker engine.
- **`docker-start-service`** - Starts the Docker engine service.
- **`docker-stop-service`** - Stops the Docker engine service.
- **`docker-restart-service`** - Restarts the Docker engine service.
- **`docker-install-dockerpy`** - Specify this tag to install the `docker-py` library.
- **`docker-install-compose`** - Flag this Ansible tag if you want to install `docker-compose` tool.

## Usage

In order to install Docker Engine across you plateform, start by checking out the role from Ansible galaxy:

```bash
ansible-galaxy install abessifi.docker
```

Finally call the role within you Ansible playbook:

```yaml
---
- hosts: all
  roles:
    - ansible-docker
```

## Development and testing

### Test with Vagrant

For quick tests, you can spin up a Debian VM using Vagrant. In the project directory `test/vagrant/` you can customize the Vagrantfile that describes your virtual machine and adapt a set of Ansible inventory files that suit your environment (IP addresses, SSH credentials, etc).

>**Note:** The `ansible-docker` role must be ran with a `sudo` user. In this example,
the `vagrant` user has sudo privileges already configured.

Start by getting the project from Github or Ansible Glaxy, then enter the `test/vagrant/` directory.

Now, run and provision the VM:

```bash
vagrant up
```

Your testing VM is up and running with Docker !

## Author Information

This role was created by [Ahmed Bessifi](https://www.linkedin.com/in/abessifi), a DevOps enthusiast.

Commit message:

Add acceptance tests with serverspec

README.md, after:

# Ansible Docker

## Description

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/abessifi/ansible-docker.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/abessifi/ansible-docker)
[![Ansible Galaxy](https://img.shields.io/badge/galaxy-abessifi.docker-blue.svg)](https://galaxy.ansible.com/abessifi/docker/)
[![Average time to resolve an issue](http://isitmaintained.com/badge/resolution/abessifi/ansible-docker.svg)](http://isitmaintained.com/project/abessifi/ansible-docker "Average time to resolve an issue")
[![Percentage of issues still open](http://isitmaintained.com/badge/open/abessifi/ansible-docker.svg)](http://isitmaintained.com/project/abessifi/ansible-docker "Percentage of issues still open")

This is an Ansible role to install Docker engine on several GNU/Linux distributions.

## Requirements

### Software Requirements

- **Ansible 2.0** or higher (can be easily installed via `pip`. E.g: `sudo pip install ansible==2.0.0.2`)
- **[Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com) 1.7** or higher (for testing purposes)
- **Virtualbox** (for testing purposes with Vagrant)
- **[Oh-my-box](https://github.com/abessifi/oh-my-box)** tool, optional, if you want to quickly provision and package a Vagrant base box with **Ansible** and **Ruby** pre-installed (recommanded to write and run acceptance tests with test-kitchen against the Ansible role).

## Supported Systems

- Debian
- Ubuntu

More infos in the role's metadata file.

## Dependencies

None.

## Role Variables

- **`docker_install_latest`** - Flag to perform the installation of the latest version of Docker engine (default: `true`)
- **`docker_pkg_version`** - If defined, this variable should specify the docker engine package version to be installed according to the Linux distribution system you want to provision (default: not defined). E.g: to install Docker engine `1.12.0` on Debian Jessie, set `docker_pkg_version` to `1.12.1-0` which results after to a package name  like `1.12.0-0~jessie`. In this use case, `docker_install_latest` should be set to `false`.
- **`docker_py_lib_version`** - The version of docker-py library to be installed (default: `1.10.5`)
- **`docker_compose_tool_version`** - The version of docker-compose tool to be installed (default: `1.6.2`)

## Available tags

- **`docker-setup`** - Specify this tag to perform the installation and configuration of Docker engine.
- **`docker-start-service`** - Starts the Docker engine service.
- **`docker-stop-service`** - Stops the Docker engine service.
- **`docker-restart-service`** - Restarts the Docker engine service.
- **`docker-install-dockerpy`** - Specify this tag to install the `docker-py` library.
- **`docker-install-compose`** - Flag this Ansible tag if you want to install `docker-compose` tool.

## Usage

In order to install Docker Engine across you plateform, start by checking out the role from Ansible galaxy:

```bash
ansible-galaxy install abessifi.docker
```

Finally call the role within you Ansible playbook:

```yaml
---
- hosts: all
  roles:
    - ansible-docker
```

## Development and testing

### Test with Vagrant

For quick tests, you can spin up a Debian VM using Vagrant. In the project directory `test/vagrant/` you can customize the Vagrantfile that describes your virtual machine and adapt a set of Ansible inventory files that suit your environment (IP addresses, SSH credentials, etc).

>**Note:** The `ansible-docker` role must be ran with a `sudo` user. In this example,
the `vagrant` user has sudo privileges already configured.

Start by getting the project from Github or Ansible Glaxy, then enter the `test/vagrant/` directory.

Now, run and provision the VM:

```bash
vagrant up
```

Your testing VM is up and running with Docker !

### Run acceptance tests

Acceptance/Integration tests could be ran against the role using the magic `test-kitchen` tool. All written acceptance tests are in the **./test/integration/** directory.

The `.kitchen.yml` file describes the testing configuration and the list of suite tests to run. By default, the instances will be converged with Ansible and ran in Vagrant virtual machines.

To list the instances:

    $ kitchen list

    Instance                    Driver   Provisioner      Verifier  Transport  Last Action
    default-debian-8-x64        Vagrant  AnsiblePlaybook  Busser    Ssh        <Not Created>
    ...

To run the default test suite, for instance, on a Ubuntu Trusty platform, run the following command:

    $ kitchen test default-ubuntu-1404-x64


## Author Information

This role was created by [Ahmed Bessifi](https://www.linkedin.com/in/abessifi), a DevOps enthusiast.
